Add blog post for sprint 171 foster collaboration (#470)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2024-08-14-introduction-labels-and-foster-collab.md

---
layout: post

> title: New Features in OBS for Improved Organization and Insight

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introducing Labels and Bug Report Links
```

category: development
---

> We’ve introduced several new features in OBS designed to enhance the efficiency. These updates include options like customized labels for better organization, setting custom URLs
> for bug reporting, and tracking the popularity of your projects, packages, and requests with a visible watcher count. Each feature is intended to give you more control and insight
> into your work, helping you stay focused on what matters most.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve introduced several new features in OBS designed to foster collaboration among OBS users. Customized labels for better organization, setting custom links for your bug tracker and markdown formatting for project/package descriptions. Those features are intended to give you more insight into your work, helping you stay focused on what matters most.
```

These updates are part of the `Foster Collaboration` and `Labels` beta programs. You can find more information about the beta program [here](/2018/10/04/the-beta-program/).

### Introduction of Labels

> As part of the `Labels` feature flag, OBS now allows you to create and customize labels with unique names and colors, tailored to the specific needs of your projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the `Labels` beta program, OBS now allows you to create and customize labels with unique names and colors, tailored to the specific needs of your projects.
```

> These labels can be applied to both packages and incoming requests, enabling you to categorize and prioritize items effectively based on their importance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These labels can be applied to both packages and incoming requests, enabling you to categorize items based on their importance, topic or any other marker you can think of.
```

Whether managing complex projects or handling a large volume of requests, labels provide a visual method to organize your work. This feature helps you to focus on the most critical
tasks and ensuring nothing is overlooked.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/2024-08-14/screenshot-label-template.png" alt="Screenshot of the new requests page" />
  <figcaption>Label Template</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/2024-08-14/screenshot-request-label.png" alt="Screenshot of the new requests page" />
  <figcaption>Request Label</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/2024-08-14/screenshot-package-label.png" alt="Screenshot of the new requests page" />
  <figcaption>Package Label</figcaption>
</figure>

### Custom URLs to Report bugs

> This feature is part of feature flag `Foster Collaboration`. The process for reporting bugs has been significantly enhanced, offering greater flexibility for project and package maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is part of `Foster Collaboration` beta program. The process for reporting bugs has been significantly enhanced, offering greater flexibility for project and package maintainers.
```

> Previously, all bug reports were automatically directed to Bugzilla, which limited the ability to use other issue-tracking systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, all bug reports were automatically directed to an OBS instance wide link (Bugzilla), which limited the ability to use custom issue-tracking systems.
```

With the latest update, maintainers can now set a custom URL for bug reporting, tailored to their preferred tracking tool.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/2024-08-14/screenshot-bug-report.png" alt="Screenshot of the new requests page" />
  <figcaption>Bug Report URL</figcaption>
</figure>

### Number of watchers

The Watch button has been enhanced to display the total number of watchers, providing a clear indication of how many users have added a project, package, or request
to their watchlist. This new feature offers valuable insights into the level of interest and engagement with specific items, allowing maintainers to gauge the attention a
project or package is receiving.

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/2024-08-14/watch-count.png" alt="Screenshot of the new requests page" />
  <figcaption>Watch Count</figcaption>
</figure>

> ### Enhance Your Descriptions with New Markdown Support

Reviewer: I think this should go before the number of watchers as it's way more important.
